huija from file coin and today Juan and
I are going to be presenting on some
really interesting opportunities for
file coin integrations for pinning
services and other web 3 infrastructure
providers so earlier today we talked a
little bit about some of about the
mission of bio coin and some of the core
problems that file coin aims to solve
and this is all in service of our goal
to create a decentralized efficient and
robust foundation for Humanity's
information as we've discussed earlier
in this talk we're gonna dive a little
bit deeper into some of the technical
details of file coin and and we're gonna
focus on a few key file coin integration
opportunities so I'd like to start by
setting the stage a little to just
explain how file Quinn works and some of
the results and properties of the system
to motivate why these integration
opportunities are interesting for
pinning services and other businesses
that are looking to integrate file coin
so starting with a little bit of the how
that file Queen protocol works if I
appoint as a market that matches clients
who want storage services with miners
who provide storage services the network
manages the interactions between the two
sides of the market so first clients can
decide which storage miners they want to
make deals with choosing across
dimensions such as storage price
available storage capacity and location
and once the storage deal is made
clients will transfer their data to the
miners clients will also set up lock up
file coin tokens in payment channels
that they set up to pay the miners for
successful storage over of their files
over time the file coin protocol
repeatedly asks miners to generate
proofs which we call proofs of
space-time to verify that the miners are
continuing to store the data correctly
over time and then after miners submit
these proofs and they're verified to be
correct the network contracts will pay
the miners the correct amount of file
coin tokens and this is a repeated
process throughout the lifetime of a
storage contract that exists on the
final point network in order for the
system to work clients need to be able
to trust that the storage proofs work as
intended and that the network protocols
themselves and incentivize honest
behavior on behalf of all the
participants in the system including
clients and miners
infile coin the way we enable this is by
using our secure cryptographic proofs
which are the proofs of replication
improves us face time and also crypto
economic mechanisms these systems work
together to ensure that all participants
in the network are behaving honestly and
ultimately that when a client sends real
money to pay for storage on a
decentralized storage network they can
be guaranteed that their data is being
stored correctly so there are certain
mechanisms in the file Queen protocol
that results in really interesting and
important features network properties
and then ultimately participant
behaviors so I wanted to dive into these
because I think it's provides an
important foundation as we talk about
some pinning service business
opportunities first file Queen rewards
storage miners with block reports and
especially early on we've seen these
effects play out over and over again and
a number of other crypto networks
especially early on these block rewards
are expected to be extremely profitable
for storage miners and we therefore
expect that they're gonna be powerful
incentives to onboard massive amounts of
storage capacity our expectations are
that around the time of main net launch
we should see at least one exabyte of
storage that will join the network
around Maine at launch to like one year
after main net launch and then many exit
bytes of storage capacity to follow the
vast amounts of storage capacity just
like in any sort of two-sided
marketplace this is the supply side of
the market place just having lots of
storage capacity is going to drive down
the price of storage on the network
resulting in ultimately relatively cheap
storage the other thing that's kind of
unique about file coin is that in
contrast to other protocols like Bitcoin
and aetherium which require miners
should generate proofs of work which are
not necessarily tied to the underlying
asset of the of the system file coin
cryptographic proofs are what we call
useful proofs of work this means that
miners are generating proofs over
storage space which is the same
underlying asset that they're also
selling on the network the hardware
their miners used to provide the useful
service of storage capacity and search
services on the network is also the same
hardware that is necessary in order to
generate the proofs that are you
to earn bloc rewards ultimately secure
the network so this all feeds back into
a miners economic system making it
relatively cheaper to generate proofs on
file coin than on other crypto networks
and ultimately resulting in cheaper
storage prices overall so the next one
is you know because we want file coin to
be a decentralized protocol that has
these really you know really clear data
storage and availability guarantees this
is the reason why we've used
cryptographic proofs like gruesel
replication and space-time but it's just
you know a property of these
cryptographic proofs that while they
allow participants in the system to
store network really cheaply retrieval
on the network is comparable slow so you
know we have a process in our proofs
called that's called unsealing so when
you first commit storage to the network
you seal the data in order to retrieve
the data you need to unseal it and
around the time of main that we're going
to have unsealing take on the order of
tens of seconds and so it's a lot slower
than what pinning services and ipfs
users might be used to this is one of
the properties that comes out of their
cryptographic proofs of the system but
this is also you know I think it creates
a tremendous opportunity for pinning
services to provide a lot of value in
the early file core network as well and
we'll dive into that a little bit more
later on the file Queen token is the
medium of exchange in the file coin
storage network and so this means that
the tokens underlying value is also
fundamentally tied to the asset that it
is used to pay for you can use a cerium
to pay for file Quinn storage one day
but or you know even in the short term
but you can also use file coin to pay
for a final point storage and this has a
lot of interesting properties as well
and then lastly the file Queen protocol
has implicit incentives for a geographic
distribution of network notes so the
reason for this is you know many clients
storage clients are much more likely to
hire storage miners that are
geographically closer to them in order
to be able to transfer data back and
forth between clients and miners more
quickly and in many cases as a result
for miners it would be more profitable
to start up new operations in regions
that are unsaturated that don't have as
many other competing storage
notes rather than competing for a set of
clients in a saturated Iowa market and
so what the sense of looking like across
the entire system is that there are just
impressive implicit incentives to
populate new regions and new markets
which ultimately leads to the file coin
Network having very powerful CDN like
capabilities so I know this is kind of a
lot to take in if you're sort of new to
file coin but I think these features are
useful to keep in mind as they help
explain why some of the file coin
integrations that we're about to discuss
are actually really compelling business
opportunities so we'll talk about a
number of these opportunities today I'm
going to cover or two of these and then
Ana's gonna dive into the rest so the
first file point iteration we're gonna
discuss is pinning to and from the file
coin storage network so this is kind of
a very generalized simplified view of in
ipfs pinning service today but you know
as we all know ipfs appending services
provide this really important service
for applications in the ecosystem that
want to use if you centralized
peer-to-peer content address storage
network network but who also want data
persistence and so this list view of you
know a generalized pinning service looks
like an IP FS painting API maybe similar
to the one that one discussed earlier
that developers can call into from their
platforms and and from their
applications and the pinning service
itself holds all of the business logic
that's necessary to manage user accounts
and user pin sets as well as managing
the underlying IP FS notes so the first
integration opportunity that is pretty
straightforward is it's just taking all
of the data that is currently stored on
ipfs nodes and backing it up to the file
point Network the second option is which
you know deserves a little bit more
explanation and we think of these as
truly file point backed ipfs pinning
services in this model you can think of
ipfs kind of as the hot storage layer or
caching layer and the file coin network
as the colder storage layer the way that
we envision some service like this
working with using file coin storage is
the
when an application makes a storage
request to an IP FS pinning service the
service automatically will store data on
both the IP FS hot storage layer and the
file coin colder storage layer and the
data may remain on the ipfs side IFS
storage layer for some time until it's
cleared out by some sort of intelligent
garbage collection strategies and then
after that point that particular CID
would only be stored on the file coin
network then when the data needs to be
received
sorry retrieved pinning services can
pull the data from the hottest layer
that has the storage it could still be
an IP FS cached layer in which case the
ping service would pull the data from my
PFS directly and in some cases it may
not be on ipfs then and it would then
have to be retrieved from the file coin
network so pending services would need
to make use of you know intelligent
caching strategies to determine when
does it make sense to pull data back
from file coin into this hot storage
layer and so on and these caching layers
are also an interesting point of
differentiation for pinning services
that might choose to adopt this kind of
architecture but there there's also
relevant to note that both IP FS and
file coin transfer I peeled ed I peeled
D data objects back and forth with each
other and they also both speak lat p2p
protocols so the sort of manipulation of
data and networking between IP FS and
file coin networks should be pretty
straightforward and then I'm in
depending on whatever architecture you
decide to use so let's talk about why
this is compelling first file Queen back
skinning services will still offer
sub-second retrieval to existing pending
services you service users that depend
on this sort of fast sub-second
retrieval speed but the other benefit is
that these sorts of pinning services
will allow greater alignment with your
web 3 application users all of the
underlying data ultimately if we go back
to the architecture would be stored on a
decentralized storage network which is
file point as opposed to you know a
centralized web to service provider like
Amazon Web Services and so this offers
directionally a better product market
fit with early pinning service adopters
it's a compelling business opportunity
to in a number of ways
you know first there's just as we
mentioned five-point storage is expected
to be pretty cheap and especially for
data that's stored and frequently we
anticipate that the cost will be quite
low and these sorts of cost savings will
both make the operations cost of running
a pinning service a lot cheaper and also
these cost savings can be passed on to
pinning service users and that's that
will also create this interesting
flywheel you know if you're able to pass
on cost savings to users might be able
to grow the market for pinning service
users as well and allowing you to then
have additional you know bulk storage at
cheaper cost and so on and so we think
that that's like a really compelling
opportunity if you're able to use file
coin as the underlying storage layer the
other reason is that pinning ipfs data
on a decentralized network well like
file coin will strengthen the pinning
service value prop within their growing
web 3 market of applications we expect
this to exist organically kind of just
because of this greater product market
fit and user alignment that we discussed
earlier but it's also because you know
the file crank project is starting to
engage in business development efforts
to expect expand the file point user
base and in fact this is already
happening we plan to direct application
developers to pinning services that are
backing up or storing their data on file
point so this would be you know just
like cumulus collectively growing all of
these ecosystems with effort from number
a number of groups including the Battle
Point project and then another benefit
is that a lot of the tooling that's
needed in or in order to enable these
file Queen backs pinning services is
also needed to enable other business
opportunities these are some that one
we'll talk about later but in particular
it includes you know if you if you are
able to batch data that needs to be
stored in the file coin network this can
actually be a useful service that you
could expose to users as well so we
think of that as charging for data
aggregation services we know that most
pinning services today don't actually
charge for retrieval but file point has
payment for retrieval sort of baked in
and a file Queen innervation could allow
for charging for retrieval pretty
naturally for pinning services and the
third is you know if you're able to
develop intelligent caching strategies
caching as a service or like charging
users for caching serves
as well could be another opportunity to
explore
we believe that file Quinn back getting
services are going to be a really
important entry point for a web 3
application developers who want to
interact with file point storage and so
we're planning on offering file
coindaddy
grants to support teams that choose to
integrate file coin storage into their
pending solutions by around the time of
main that launch for a file point which
will be July in July or August of this
year you can reach out to me directly
pooja in order to get more information
on what these grants look like or you
can also email Deb ramps at 50.0 org one
easy way to get started with building
this type of file crane back to connect
service is to use textiles power gate
which andrew is and Aaron are going to
talk a lot more about in the next
presentation but the high level is that
power power gate embeds and ipfs node
and a file coin node and it exposes this
really exposes this really intuitive API
to interact with both target is really
valuable because it abstracts away a lot
of the complexity of storing data on the
file point network such as how do you
select miners how do you maintain
storage deals over time and once the
storage contract has expired how do you
renew that storage contract there's a
lot of complexity and kind of doing all
of this deal management on file find
that power gate provides a really
seamless really intuitive interface for
I won't go too much into the details
here since Andrew and Aaron are gonna
give a whole talk on it next but
powerful data is going to be a really
powerful tool for pinning service
providers the next opportunity I'd like
to talk about is storage mining so we
believe that there's a massive
opportunity for file coins storage
mining some estimates expect that by
2025 we're gonna be generating something
like have generated 175 Zeta bytes of
data in the world while we'll only have
around four and a half Zeta bytes of
data storage supply that's I think the
diff between those two it's it's around
40 X more data that we are expected to
generate then we will have space for and
so clearly there's a huge opportunity
even if you assume the appropriate
haircuts and maybe we're not actually
going to generate 175 data bytes of data
but it's like half or
quarter of that and even if a lot of
that data is discarded there will
clearly still in the future be large
demand for storage services and this is
not in the far future but over the next
few years
file coin as a market enables a host of
services to put storage up on the
network you know this is this could be
the top three cloud storage providers
but it also creates an opportunity for a
host of other groups you know other
cloud storage providers that maybe
aren't you know the large the largest
players in the ecosystem but also
service you know businesses that do
storage backups telcos and ISPs data
warehouses storage hardware
manufacturers consumers who may have
their own sort of setups at home crypto
miners and also we believe pinning
services so file Queens aim is to
provide a marketplace where players in
any of these verticals can provide their
storage capacity for rent on a
marketplace and abstracts it you know it
straps away all of the marketing meeting
to maintain nodes in different regions
and so on and provides a really seamless
user experience for storage providers
that want to sell storage to users who
need it touched on this a little bit
earlier but the network compensates
storage miners in a number of ways and
just to touch on a few of these you know
though probably at least early on we
anticipate a large a large part of the
rewards or the compensation for storage
miners will come through block rewards
and these are earned proportional to the
amount of data that you as a miner would
be providing to the network so locker
words we anticipate are going to be
extremely profitable or early on and so
that's like just but that's just one
portion of the file coin storage miner
business opportunity the other is
transaction fees for processing messages
so as a storage miner you still do the
work of creating blocks just as you as
miners do on other crypto networks when
clients decide to pay storage miners or
include data on the file coin network or
just users sending transactions back and
forth to each other
all of these messages need to be
processed into final point blocks
and storage miners or any miners on the
network that produce blocks can earn
transaction fees for doing this work a
block reduction and then the third is
it's probably the most important like
definitely in the long term but file
coins Forge miners also get paid of
course you know for the service of
storing and retrieving data on the
network and so the payments that come
over time from the network contracts as
miner submit their proofs the space/time
they get paid in file coin tokens as
well those deal payments are a recurring
source of revenue for storage miners
that provides storage services on the
network as well so you know there's a
lot more we could say on the file quick
storage mining site it's not directly at
I into pinning services and what pinning
services do today but I think there's a
really compelling opportunity here and
especially if your service or you run a
service that has you know storage
capacity that you maintain or some of it
as idle while coin storage mining could
be a great opportunity for you as well
I'm going to talk about the how to take
payments how to operate a serial market
operator and and how to consider
potentially selling other kinds of
services so for the competence part if
you're familiar with that with a lot of
crota payments then this is going to be
very similar to to everything else we
were used to we followed all the normal
standards around around assigning and so
on we've got integrations with a bunch
of of different kinds of hardware
wallets and so on to make all of that
all the tooling can work as usual and
we're working on on payment processors
so that parties can can deal with
payments and process all their payments
as well and like that's that's an easy
thing that's if you are familiar with
how all the stuff works if you're not
them in there I'll send out some links
that kind of explain how the whole
process flows but I'll give a kind of a
brief description description now so
basically you what you can do with
without when plugin supports two kinds
of payments at the moment one is just a
direct payment transaction that goes
into the chain and so that's a kind of a
slower payment and the second is a
payment channel that is optimized to
work alongside
so the idea is that data is flowing one
way and payments are falling the other
way and payments are and data are kind
of moved around incrementally so you can
think of moving chunks of a file or
maybe one file out of many and then
receive a partial payment and and so on
and keep going and so that way if a
party stops paying or or there's kind of
like a like a transfer or meaning a
party paid but never got the file then
the kind of transaction can be able to
quickly without kind of losing a lot a
lot of money or a lot of the data and so
the payment channel flow is is
implemented in the chin as well and you
end up with with Parkman tokens the once
you have these tokens are kind of these
units of account on on the blockchain
they end up in a kind of spread out in
in in potential I'm a number of accounts
if people are having many different
machines running this and so on and and
so there are these kind of tools called
being across there's that then I kind of
gather that together and then cannot do
accounting for figuring out what what
deals actually happen and and and
whatnot and then you can clear the and
then you can effectively trade the trade
the popcorn for yup when people have a
choice of whether or not who those my
name is hang on to that pal coin and
then use it in the network or something
or then to kind of sell it to two
clients and users that didn't want to
use it for for storage right so this is
a the medium of exchange can be can be
sold through through a will will be kind
of sellable through through whatever
systems kind of support that I imagine
that a it's likely that in aetherium
there will be kind of some like wrapped
wrapped flop going kind of thing and so
people will be able to use unit swap and
all that kind of stuff to to move to
move the tokens around and so this this
means that it it ends up fairly easy for
parties to accept falcone payments with
use of payment processor to figure out
what what happened and then move to
whatever medium of whatever sort of
value they prefer to keep whether it's
keeping giving five point or
being some other cryptocurrencies or
moving to a stable coin or moving to
normal fiat currency either by going
through a currency on on like something
like a USC T or something like that or
or directly clearing through through
some kind of fiat exchange or something
like that so those kinds of systems are
on gonna be kind of online at some point
and and so it means that it's very
fairly easy for a pinning service or
provider to accept Popham payments
without having to kind of bare
cryptocurrency market risk if you're not
if you don't wanna do that
so you can clear it to whatever the
currency of choice is and get the
popcorn into the hands of clients so
that they can use it for for paying for
for the storage
and there's a number of like libraries
and tools and so on good that'll make
all of us all this easy so the next part
so the remark and we keep kind of
talking about this the way to think
about it is that if you have the ability
to have a fully open market where any
party that hears about a file being
requested a lot can grab it and then
serve it to users downstream then you
would get a sort of automatically
scaling CDN that responds to to demand
on the network right so imagine in the
beginning only a few parties have you
know some piece of data because they're
they're the parties that are storing it
long term and then suddenly something
becomes viral and a number of people
start requesting it so the first few
people that requested will go to those
those storage providers first and
retrieve the file as kind of the
popularity of the of the item increases
the kind of ritual Martin miner Network
takes notice and then you know parties
can respond to that demand in their
locality meaning that if there's a hot
area of parties requesting filing a
particularly in the world then the
ritual - there are the ones who can
decide to replicate the file and then
serve it locally so think of it as
making it more efficient distribution
model by using using markets and the
ability to kind of observe that in the
end though on that work
it's kind of like the long term goal
from the retail market where it should
be possible for anybody with with with a
computer and some some spare hard drives
to participate in in an internet
connection of course to participate in
the retail market and be able to kind of
offer up some amount of storage space to
to cash really hot content that that
wants to be viewed you know kind of
close to them and so this is where
geographical location will matter a lot
because it's it's not about kind of
having a lot of storage is really about
exactly where you are in the network and
how quickly can you deliver something to
do the parties requesting it it's not
only the long-term though in order to
get there a whole
network has to be built out of these
virtual parties who are spread out
across the globe so think of this as
kind of day one of the retrieval network
where the only you know kind of initial
retrieval parties are the same kind of
storage providers that are providing
providing the files and then kind of
these layers of parties started merging
but our closer and closer to users so
imagine like the the first parties
appearing say in data centers spread out
across a bunch of regions in in the
world and then after that kind of closer
to the edges in kind of edge caches and
then after that going all the way to
kind of the buildings as we're showing
here and so the film market is is the
PISA that'll work
with this kind of very low latency
payment mechanism with the payment
channel and all of the payment channels
upon our we're built out of for this use
case because you cannot wait for for a
payment to clear clear the channel
that's way too slow you want to be able
to do a payment real-time in one
round-trip so you can think of like you
know a large gossip network where where
requests are being are being forwarded
and know if somebody responds to the
request and they don't pass it on to
other parties so you kind of see kind of
like the hotspots of content being
addressed by by the content moving
closer to those those areas and so then
there's a whole set of other potential
services that that can be kind of sold
through the network and into this a
whole bunch of different kinds of
developer processes I like to call them
and the be necessary so things like
aggregation as which I mentioned so the
the normal Falcone stored long-term
storage I think it takes a while to seal
steel sectors and in takes a while to
kind of store that sort of mean kind of
this long-term long-term storage and so
that means that it means that doing it
in doing storage in bulk is a lot
cheaper trying to transaction wise so it
means that if parties want to sort very
little amounts in data it's useful to
first kind of put them all in like a
long log and IRA gave them along with
other pieces of data and then batch all
of that and put all of that together
into a deal and so we expect there to be
like a pretty significant opportunity
early on for parties who are just kind
of integrated with applications and in
providing the normal pinning service
experience for for for an application
who are then kind of combining all of
these kind of aggregated logs and then
batching writing out two to five point
and so what you get is actually
something very close to what happens in
normal computer so you can think of
normal computers like the CPU needing
kind of like the really really hot
memory and being able to kind of pin in
like the local cache and then going out
to ram if if you need to when when when
a you need kind of like a larger address
space or going out to disk if and so on
and each of these steps is dramatically
slower but it gives you access to much
more memory so think of a file in the
same way to where there are different
kinds of service providers at different
tiers providing different parts of the
equation so there's like long term
really cheap storage that's potentially
in some specific parts of the world then
there are much faster caches that are
closer to users that are responding to
the man only so the things are not doing
that they mattador there's a kind of a
prior agreement to keep it hot things
things won't be there and then there's
also kind of aggregation of component of
data to to make the rights into the into
the disk be as efficient as possible so
normally the the all the normal
intuitions you might have about how
computer works and how CPU works and Ram
and disk apply very closely to how
the retrieval market and and kind of hot
storage closeby works so a bunch of the
techniques have direct analogs you can
even think of like so the term pinning
and ipfs comes from the idea of pinning
a memory page in the CPU and keeping it
really hot so the idea of opening
service keeping things really hot is
like super apt so it's like exactly like
a pizza that's a bill
there are also other kinds of things
that the price can provide and so this
is
think of think of there being you know
classes services around mining so for
example miners have to do this set of
expensive computations in GPUs that in
order to produce some of the proofs
smaller miners are not going to want to
buy a lot of GPUs to do these kinds of
computations so they're gonna hire some
other parties to to run these these uh
these computations so there are parties
that are already offering kind of these
GPU farms as a service where you kind of
submit the data that you need they
produce the ZK snark and then they
return it to you and then you you can
submit it onto the chain and so there's
a number of kind of components of
processing and and data processing so so
both processing of proofs and so on and
also kind of like the data aggregation
or data preparing preparation and so on
there are all kind of smaller components
where a bit of the right computation in
a well-placed location in the world can
can you know get a significant advantage
so think of this as just unbundling all
of the systems that are in a large-scale
high-performance production environment
and say a normal storage cloud like
centralized cloud provider and think of
all of the kind of different components
that are involved in making systems like
that work and think of basically
replicating those out in an open market
where instead of it being a different
process or a service in in some some
large company web you can it's a service
on the public internet that that
different parties are running weather
and and instead of it being kind of only
internally accounted or whatever it's
then just paid for by by payment
channels and I imagine this a whole host
of data prep techniques that that will
be will benefit certain kinds of of data
flows where we're certain miners can
we're saying we're miners can can
participate in those kinds of operations
as well yeah I think that's it actually
so maybe we can just take questions now
we have a few minutes for it do you see
a J bar next to a CloudFlare gateway and
two hundred-plus regions around the
world having it
observing the data quickly not suddenly
so so that's exactly exactly what what
an excellent through minor would would
do so so really think of kind of how the
current CDN CDN market works and and
just think of like mirroring that and in
in an open marketplace where we're on
you don't have to write you know you
don't have to have a huge organization
and write contracts you can just take a
ticket machine and set it up point it to
the blockchain run some code and then it
spits out cryptocurrency and that's it
like that's that's kind of like really
the whole thrust of coin is to take what
today is a market that is mediated by
large scale contracts through human
organizations and turned that into fully
an open market where it's just programs
running around and using crypto currency
and and Unchained contracts to
facilitate all the trades my question on
do you see storage minor separation
between the GPU seeking to the CPU
storage only and so on
some amount so it is very likely that
that large scale miners are gonna want
to have their whole setups in-house and
and the reason is that once you get to a
certain scale you really need those
operations to run very efficiently and
trusting another group to to do it might
be maybe potentially like well yeah
party just missing delivering a second
or two you might like cause you to lose
a block which then loses a block reward
which is adds up really quick so we
expect the kind of large might as well
we'll just kind of run the most of the
operations in-house that's that medium
and smaller miners are unlikely to to
have to produce that many ZJ Starks and
so they did they just need to produce
them quickly enough but at a given
moment and so this is exactly what we're
a service could be could be extremely
useful where we sort of expect to see
these kind of like SAS services snarks
ask the service things popping up where
you know you just submit you know it's
kind of like an RPC you submit like the
data you need and I pop them in and then
you get back the the snark computed
pay me channels just small sequential
payments or do they have some form of
status in the theorem state annals today
it's mostly sequential payments I
believe it had a memo field I'll go back
and look we debated like a fair amount
of time they don't know might have gone
removed but for now it's mostly just
payments we want to do stay channels at
some point but um we also need to needed
to keep the complexity of pot going down
so that's one of the the Buckman chain
ends up being way more complex than then
something like a Karen because of a
cruise and the consensus and so on
that's why we kind of didn't have don't
have a p.m. either because launching all
of that all those layers all at once is
a much riskier so we want to kind of
defer that out to the to later on
so a penny service is like an advanced
betrayal minor longer-term small rill -
but also become a lighter-weight
homegrown pinning service and CD on eve
easy enough to self Costanera yeah
that's right so so um think of like
finding services fitting like the right
spot to be serving kind of like really
sort of like the s3 use case now and
maybe later the quad front use case but
then smaller smaller virtual miners
might be even closer to end-user so
they're just gonna have less of the
market it's really really useful to
think of it as like a big grapevine
right so the internet is shaped like a
like a very very large grapevine with
many many many tiers and so you can
think of anywhere in the vertices in one
direction you have users downstream from
you that are requesting data or
potentially uploading data and the other
direction you have you might have like
that most of the sources of the data are
in that direction and so as the first
user start requesting things if they're
going over this kind of public channel
announcing what they're trying to get
then you can notice that and if you know
it trips on threshold then then you pull
the data yourself and they'll start
serving out to to others around you and
so that that can happen can about every
vertex in in that grapevine
so both very high levels where you need
very high performance machines and
you're dealing with massive amounts of
traffic because
tons of people downstream from you or a
closer and closer to the user where
suddenly latency is the advantage late
you're able to serve things extremely
quickly to another party close to you
but you have a much smaller slice of the
market downstream from you
and so that therefore you don't you're
yeah you're it's probably like a limited
limited level of revenue now that um
what we would like to get is just an
automatic scaling where content flows to
the right vertices through the grapevine
where it really should be to kind of
optimize the whole distribution based on
what what is actually being requested
real-time but you know getting there is
gonna require some so amount of time
with like really perfecting those those
kind of announcement channels and all
that kind of stuff at the very beginning
we sort of expect the retrieval market
to really be in kind of like the low low
hundreds maybe or like even even under a
hundred of the other beginning of the
network
from there grow to 2,000 some tens of
thousands wondering how the geolocation
is determined can I choose to sort of
the data like in Australia because they
know I'm going to they are there in the
future totally so so when you interact
with a miner so some clients choose
which miners to store through and when
they do that they they can see their IP
address and potentially there might be
profiles to them that are kind of
generated on separate separate services
and so you can use you can select miners
based on a lot of features so price is
likely to be one of the main features by
which people select miners well there's
a whole host of other reasons like you
might want it to be specifically in this
particular region or your miners might
offer other kinds of things like sir
kinds of security thresholds so some of
the stuff that we've been thinking about
is that a lot of data really requires
certain degree of confidentiality or or
or or regulatory levels of security so
things like HIPAA compliance and went on
and we imagine that kind of stuff to be
to be done eventually where certain
miners can can you know promise to be
HIPAA compliant and and and go through
the normal procedures that parties go
through in order to get those
verifications and then be able to
advertise that in the network just think
of it as a full open market where our
clients and miners can can make deals
with each other if they is a desire and
you're not kind of rate limited by my
human organizations gaming economies of
scale quick question for me what is the
future of using mobile devices like
smartphones for storage mining maybe
subconscious from repair miners it's
likely that phones may be okay retrieval
miners and but let people's phones if
you keeping connected a peer-to-peer
network often I've got a lose brain
battery and use a lot of data so people
probably won't do that what a but there
are a lot of phones like many more
phones than there are people trying to
use them so and they usually have really
good GPUs and really could get a good
machinery so I wouldn't be surprised if
people set up like farms with phones
eventually with to do different kinds of
processing but I wouldn't expect it to
be people's normal phones I think what
phones will be good for is moving around
content in almost offline settings where
the fact that you're close to another
person's phone means that you have
access to the network even if you're not
close enough to an attendant yourself
so so you can think of fire child as a
great example of this of of of content
moving and routing through a mesh
network and so that that's probably the
most interesting use case for for the
phones case thank you very much